README.md, before:

# cobblerclient

Cobbler Client written in Go.

Original authors:

- [Container Solutions](https://www.container-solutions.com/) (2015)
- [Joe Topjian](https://github.com/jtopjian) (2017)

Adapted by [hbokh](https://github.com/hbokh) (for [Devhouse Spindle](https://wearespindle.com/), 2020) to support Cobbler 3.x.

## Cobbler 3 support

[Cobbler](https://github.com/cobbler/cobbler) (up to version 2.8.x) was written in Python2.
However, Python2 is EOL since January 2020.\
Cobbler 3 has been adapted to use Python3 and so lots of code changed. Sadly this also broke
backward compatability with the original `cobblerclient`. Hence this fork.

### XMLRPC API changes

Function `read_or_write_kickstart_template` was replaced with:

- `read_autoinstall_template`
- `write_autoinstall_template`
- `remove_autoinstall_template`

Function `read_or_write_snippet` was replaced with:

- `read_autoinstall_snippet`
- `write_autoinstall_snippet`
- `remove_autoinstall_snippet`

### Other changes

Template names used are now **short names** without a path.\
So `foo.ks` instead of `/var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/foo.ks`.

#### Renamed

These attributes are renamed in Cobbler 3:

- `kickstart` to `autoinstall`
- `ks_meta` to `autoinstall_meta`, but it is still used as a "legacy field"

These directories have been renamed:

- `/var/www/cobbler/ks_mirror` to `/var/www/cobbler/distro_mirror`
- `/var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts` to `/var/lib/cobbler/templates`

The storage locations for the json files changed from `/var/lib/cobbler/config/{distros,profiles,systems,etc...}.d` to `/var/lib/cobbler/collections/{distros,profiles,systems,etc...}`.

There is being worked on a script to migrate these: `scripts/migrate-data-v2-to-v3.py`.

#### Added

These fields have been added:

- `boot_loader` - must be either `grub` or `pxelinux`

#### Removed

Support for these attributes was dropped in Cobbler 3:

- `ldap_enabled`
- `ldap_type`
- `monit_enabled`
- `redhat_management_server`

## Todo

- [x] Make `terraform apply` & `terrafrom destroy` at least work for the Spindle setup ("add systems").
- [x] Fix outdated go tests (`go test -v .`, also broken in origin repo).
- [ ] Dive deeper into changed types for some fields (see [COBBLER_FIELDS](./COBBLER_FIELDS.md)).

Commit message:

v3.3.0 compatible client. Main challenge was profiles; their name field now must be written before the rest. A few schema changes, plus Ubuntu 20.04 replacing 18.04. go run cmd/main.go is now executing to completion and all tests are passing.  Removed COBBLER_FIELDS.md doc since too great a maintenance burden to track the schema here; more up-to-date reference is available: https://cobbler.github.io/cobbler-web/ Two known issues: 1.  Systems cannot currently have interfaces attached due to Cobbler issue #2846, should be fixed in next minor release. 2.  Bootloader cannot be configured.

README.md, after:

# cobblerclient

Cobbler Client written in Go.

Authors:

- [Container Solutions](https://www.container-solutions.com/) (2015)
- [Joe Topjian](https://github.com/jtopjian) (2017)
- [hbokh](https://github.com/hbokh) (for [Devhouse Spindle](https://wearespindle.com/), 2020) - Cobbler 3.x support
- [bholmes](https://github.com/bholmes) (2022) - Cobbler 3.3.x support

## Cobbler 3.3.x support
v0.5.0 of this client introduced support for Cobbler v3.3.0, which was a refactor from runtime-created Python 
attributes to Python Properties.  For further details see 
[release notes](https://github.com/cobbler/cobbler/releases/tag/v3.3.0).  This client's support for earlier Cobbler 
versions was dropped.

### To-do
1. Reinstate system interface testing when Cobbler issue #2846 is fixed.
2. Fix bootloaders

## Cobbler <=3.2.x support
Retaining the below notes for the time-being, which only apply to v0.4.2 and earlier clients:

[Cobbler](https://github.com/cobbler/cobbler) (up to version 2.8.x) was written in Python2.
However, Python2 is EOL since January 2020.\
Cobbler 3 has been adapted to use Python3 and so lots of code changed. Sadly this also broke
backward compatability with the original `cobblerclient`. 

### XMLRPC API changes

Function `read_or_write_kickstart_template` was replaced with:

- `read_autoinstall_template`
- `write_autoinstall_template`
- `remove_autoinstall_template`

Function `read_or_write_snippet` was replaced with:

- `read_autoinstall_snippet`
- `write_autoinstall_snippet`
- `remove_autoinstall_snippet`

### Other changes

Template names used are now **short names** without a path.\
So `foo.ks` instead of `/var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/foo.ks`.

#### Renamed

These attributes are renamed in Cobbler 3:

- `kickstart` to `autoinstall`
- `ks_meta` to `autoinstall_meta`, but it is still used as a "legacy field"

These directories have been renamed:

- `/var/www/cobbler/ks_mirror` to `/var/www/cobbler/distro_mirror`
- `/var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts` to `/var/lib/cobbler/templates`

The storage locations for the json files changed from `/var/lib/cobbler/config/{distros,profiles,systems,etc...}.d` to `/var/lib/cobbler/collections/{distros,profiles,systems,etc...}`.

There is being worked on a script to migrate these: `scripts/migrate-data-v2-to-v3.py`.

#### Added

These fields have been added:

- `boot_loader` - must be either `grub`, `pxe`, or `ipxe`

#### Removed

Support for these attributes was dropped in Cobbler 3:

- `ldap_enabled`
- `ldap_type`
- `monit_enabled`
- `redhat_management_server`
